**Final Reflection** 

What a journey this class has been\! I originally chose this course because I was interested in computer science and wanted to do some coding to see if it was something I wanted to pursue as a career.  Yes, I know. You mentioned at the beginning of the course that if you majored in computer science or had an interest in it, this class wasn’t necessarily for you. However, I ended up sticking with this class, and I don't regret my decision. This course was one of the only ones where I felt like I learned some meaningful skills that I will most likely use for other classes or just for fun. I won’t lie, it was hard, especially at the beginning. Learning all the new terms and vocabulary, it felt like I was diving into an endless pit. However, I don’t think you could have done a better job at teaching us, and for that, I want to say thank you. The notebook assignments were quite enjoyable, especially the one you created. The Halloween haunted CCNY special was fun, and the data visualization was another assignment/notebook that was fun to learn and see the inner workings of how they were created. Seeing the Reddit API was another interesting thing about how a large group of people were able to gather and organize so much data so that the average person could have easier access and be able to use it. The technical readings were also quite interesting, seeing the dataset and the background of the Trans-Atlantic slave trade and the Bellevue armshouse. Seeing how people were able to come together and use data as a means of fighting against oppression was something I had never even thought of or considered. If I had never taken this course, I would still be ignorant of how to use data, more than just simple scientific data or simple graphs in math.  Articles like “We Still Can’t See American Slavery for What It Was” by Jamelle Bouie and “Introduction: Why Data Science Needs Feminism” by Catherine D'Ignazio and Lauren Klein were interesting to read because they showed the “oppressed” using their wits and smarts to organize and weaponize data to their advantage and use it as a means to advocate for the constant oppression their face. It was also a means of educating those who weren’t aware of the situation. Let me not even begin on debugging and how frustrating it can be. It’s almost like solving a math problem where you know the rules and formula to use, yet you get faced with a problem that looks like nothing you've seen before. Yet when you solve that issue, the adrenaline rush is satisfying. To answer my statement at the beginning of this long paragraph, yes, I will still pursue computer science. It might not just be computer science but something that requires coding until I either lose that spark or gain a new interest. Again, I want to say thank you for teaching this amazing course and for everything you did for us. I wish you all the happiness in the world\!